= Arabic Stemmer for Sphinx

== What
Patches that add Arabic stemming to the Sphinx[http://sphinxsearch.com/] search engine.

The stemming algorithm used in these patches comes from and is described in:

  Arabic Stemming Without A Root Dictionary.
  Kazem Taghva, Rania Elkoury, and Jeffery Coombs. 2005.
  Information Science Research Institute (ISRI).
  University of Nevada, Las Vegas, (UNLV).
  URL: http://www.isri.unlv.edu/publications/isripub/Taghva2005b.ps


== The Patches
There are two patches so far:

* sphinx-stemar-0.9.9.patch is for version 0.9.9 (not rc1 or rc2) 
* sphinx-stemar-1.10-beta.patch is for version 1.10-beta (works on trunk too, at the time of this writing) 


== How to apply

* Prerequisites

  Make sure you have the build essentials (gcc, make, etc.) and the autoconf tools
  installed on your system

* Fetch and extract the sphinx version you're interested in...

    wget http://www.sphinxsearch.com/downloads/sphinx-X.X.X.tar.gz
    tar -xzf sphinx-X.X.X.tar.gz

* Or checkout trunk

    svn checkout http://sphinxsearch.googlecode.com/svn/trunk trunk

* Download the matching patch next to the sphinx root directory

* From the root of the sphinx source directory

  # verify that the patch works
    patch --dry-run -p1 -i ../sphinx-stemar-X.X.X.patch
  
  # apply it if no errors were reported
    patch -p1 -i ../sphinx-stemar.patch
  
  # regenrate Makefile.in from Makefile.am
    autoreconf

  # build as usual
    ./configure
    make
    sudo make install

== Notes
Unfortunately, there are no instructions and/or guidelines for submiting patches
to the sphinx project. After asking on the project's forum, it seemed that the
best option, based on the suggestions I received, is to submit the patch through
the project's bug tracking system. The issue is at:

  http://www.sphinxsearch.com/bugs/view.php?id=519

There has been no response to date, and I'm not sure why. It could be because
the patches are not up to the project's standards (I would like to know what
they are), don't have any tests (couldn't figure out the cryptic test harness,
but I keep trying), or some other mysterious reason.

Anyway, the stemmer is usable and quite useful. It beats not having any stemming
at all. After all, no stemming algorithm is 100% effective, AFAIK. This one is
no exception.

